# hotel-booking-analysis
Exploring and analyzing the hotel booking to get actionable insights. 
Hotel industry is one of the most volatile and highly competitive industries. The bookings in the industry depends on a lot of factors day of week, season, costs, accessibility, facilities, etc. So, hotel owners should make use of the historical data of the hotel bookings which would help them draw actionable insights and stay ahead of their peers in the industry. They can come up with customized campaigns for specific regions and people by analyzing the past data. Effective data analysis could help them address the booking cancellation issue. They can also predict when the hotel would get a greater number of bookings.
In the current EDA project, we have a data set with data related to type of hotels, when the booking was made, length of stay, repeated guests, the number of adults, children, and/or babies, and the number of available parking spaces, among other things. As a part of analysing the data, we first tried to understand the data by using head(), tail() and info() attribute. Then we created a copy of the original data set in order to perform data cleaning. After creating a copy, we performed data cleaning by deleting the duplicate and null values from the copy data set.
In the EDA process, we tried to find different trends like from which country most number of guests are coming, which type of hotels are making more revenue, monthly wise bookings over the year, how many customers are asking for car parking space, week and weekend stays, most preferred meal type, etc. We also used different graphs in the process by visualizing the data as required to effectively analyse it and get insights.
